# When Is 'Done' Better Than 'Perfect'?

As you reader might already know, I'm a strong proponent of the idea that "Done is better than perfect."

Of course, I am not blinded in my belief. There are definitely situations where attaining perfection is of a much greater value. The real question is,

***When***?

Humans are generally faced with tasks, that can be put into two broad categories:

1. When the act of doing the task is of value.
2. When the result or outcome of doing said task is of even greater value.

Examples of when the act of doing the task is of immense value, probably even more so than the result:
- Writing your first song
- Hitting your first bucket of golf balls on the driving range
- Studying a day before for a mid-semester exam of a subject you know nothing about.

In each of the these situations, the actual act of doing the task is generally far more valuable than the result of the task. Your first song **is** going to be mediocre, your first swings of the golf club **are** going to be laughworthy, and you probably are **not** going to top your class in a subject you know nothing about, if you start studying the day before.

Point being, no matter the quality of the result, it is far more valuable to do such tasks, and then moving on to their next step, than to be stuck in the task, trying to become perfect.

Examples of when the result of a task is more valuable than the act of doing the task:
- Presenting findings of a research project that's been in the works for a few months
- Cooking for friends or family whom you have specially called for dinner
- Making a play late in a close game

In each of these situations, it is clear that the stakes are generally high. To find yourself in a situation where the outcome of your actions is critical, there usually is a long period of intense interaction with similar situations that lead up to that particular moment. A research presentation is preceeded by the research itself, long or meaningful relationships, and experience with cooking lead up to your calling your friends for dinner, and there are countless team practices and games before a critical game in a tournament. Each one of the build-ups is an opportunity to prepare for result-sensitive tasks later. Or in other words, practice.